-   **Introduction**
    -   What can we expect an advanced analytical organization to be
        able to do?
    -   Which methods can generate which types of decision support.
    -   Create a basis for dialogue between the company and the analyst.
    -   Make it possible for the company to formulate exactly what it
        wants from its BA function.
-   **Data, Information, and Knowledge**
    -   Data
        -   Carrier of information
        -   Too specific to be used for decision support
        -   Not structured to make sense – could make sense in many
            contexts
    -   Information
        -   Aggregated to a level where it makes sense
        -   Includes reports, tables or lists
    -   Knowledge
        -   Information interpreted
        -   If a table is used, it is delivered with a summary or
            presentation of that it means in relation to business
            objectives
        -   Not a result of automation
        -   Requires analysts, quantitative methods and business insight
-   **Analyst’s Role**
    -   Link the technical environment with the business environment
    -   Ensure business value can be extracted from the technical
        environment
        -   Then extract that value
    -   Technicians have a tendency to perceive the organization as a
        large number of technologies that together constitute a systems
        structure, in relation to which data from the source systems
        moves.
    -   This perspective is incompatible with a business perspective,
        which sees the organization as a large number of value‐adding
        processes that ultimately deliver different types of services or
        products to its customers.
    -   If maintenance becomes an objective…
        -   Huge volumes of low quality data
        -   Investment in data is just a cost with no benefit
        -   Every time we want to enter data into warehouse can’t b/c IT
            is working on some project business isn’t interest in
        -   System uses all its resources to maintain itself instead of
            serving the business
    -   Other issues
        -   Providing front-end reports the business isn’t asking for
        -   Reports may not be formatted for specific business
            objectives
        -   Usually results in reluctance to use data warehouse
        -   OR general mistrust in data provided
    -   Poor analytic support results in:
        -   Companies invest millions in technical environment but don’t
            invest in analytic staff
        -   Analysts are only data managers or report developers
        -   Unable to contribute any independent analytics input
-   **Three Requirements for Analysts**
    -   Business competencies
        -   Understand the business process he or she is supporting and
            how the delivered information/knowledge can make a
            value-adding difference at a strategic level.
            -   The business needs a clear strategy that is communicated
                to the analyst. The analyst needs to make sure analysis
                considers company strategy.
        -   The analyst understands and is able to convey the potential
            of using information as a competitive parameter
            -   The analyst needs to be a good communicator and how to
                leverage results to benefit the business
        -   Understand the business process he or she is supporting and
            how the delivered information/knowledge can make a
            value-adding difference at a strategic level.
            -   The analyst needs to have a close relationship with the
                business units supported. The business unit needs to
                trust the analyst.
        -   The analyst needs to have or be given a fundamental business
            insight in relation to the deliveries that are to be made.
            -   Results that do not relate to business action or
                understanding are of no use to the business.
        -   The analyst must be able to optimize deliverables in such a
            way that the user is given the best possible decision
            support.
            -   Audience needs to be considered carefully when providing
                results to the business.
        -   The analyst needs to be capable of having a continual
            dialogue with the business, as well as of detecting and
            creating synergies across functions.
            -   Analysts need to have a close relationship with the
                business units they support. Analysts across functions
                need to keep in close contact
    -   Tool kit that is in order (method competencies)
        -   Data Visualization
            -   Often a requirement to visualize information so that the
                user gets an overview of results.
        -   Statistical Methods
            -   Need users to derive the correct insight from the
                information being provided.
            -   Must know which test to use and when (will often need to
                look up details)
        -   Statistical Software
            -   Analysts should not define themselves based on their
                knowledge of a specific software package.
            -   Most analytical software provide the same functions in
                slightly different ways.
            -   Most analytics software are compatible with one another.
            -   Most important: extract the right insight.
    -   Technical understanding (data competencies)
        -   Analysts will spend around 80% of their time importing and
            cleaning data
        -   Analysts need to be adept at data cleaning/manipulation to
            maximize their effectiveness
    -   Analytics is a team sport – don’t need all these competencies in
        every person on the team.
